use pseudo inverse squareroot on transformed x (#250)
openpharma/mmrm: vignettes/empirical_wls.Rmd

\]

where $d$ takes value of $0$, $-1$ and $-1/2$.

Here we will prove that they are identical.

## Proof of Identity

### Proof for Covariance Estimator

First of all, we assume that all $A_i$ matrix, in any form, are positive-definite.
Comparing $v_{wls}$ and $v_{mmrm}$, we see that the different part is

\[
  M_{wls, d, i} = W_i (I_i - H_{wls,ii})^d
\]
and
\[
  M_{mmrm, d, i} = L_i (I_i - H_{mmrm,ii})^d L_i^\top
\]

Substitute $H_{wls}$ and $H_{mmrm}$ with its expression, we have

\[
  M_{wls, d, i} = W_i (I_i - X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top W_i)^d
\]

\[
  M_{mmrm, d, i} = L_i (I_i - L_i^\top X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top L_i)^d L_i^\top
\]

Apparently, if $d=0$, these two are identical because $W_i = L_i L_i^\top$.

When $d = -1$, we have

\[
  M_{mmrm, -1, i} = L_i (I_i - L_i^\top X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top L_i)^{-1} L_i^\top \\
  = (L_i^{-1})^{-1} (I_i - L_i^\top X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top L_i)^{-1} ((L_i^\top)^{-1})^{-1} \\
  = [((L_i^\top)^{-1})(I_i - L_i^\top X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top L_i)(L_i^{-1})]^{-1} \\
  = [(L_i^\top)^{-1}L_i^{-1} - X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top]^{-1} \\
  = (W_i^{-1} -  X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top)^{-1}
\]

\[

>   M_{wls, -1, i} = W_i (I_i - X_i (X^\top W X)^{-1} X_i^\top W_i)^{-1} \\

Author: actually for $d=0$ and $d=-1$ this is what I am doing; but $d=-1/2$ is a bit tricky; and when $d$ is not decided I could not have the expression.

\]

and note the relationship between $(I - X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top W)$ and $(I - L^\top X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top L)$
has already been proved in covariance estimator section, we only need to prove

\[
  L^{-1} (I - X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top W) S_i^\top = (I - L^\top X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top L) S_i^\top L_i^{-1}
\]

Apparently

\[
  L^{-1} (I - X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top W) S_i^\top = L^{-1} S_i^\top - L^{-1} X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i^\top W_i
\]

\[
  (I - L^\top X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X^\top L) S_i^\top L_i^{-1} = S_i^\top L_i^{-1} - L^\top X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i^\top
\]

And obviously
\[
  L^{-1} S_i^\top = S_i^\top L_i^{-1}
\]

\[
  L^{-1} X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i W_i = L^\top X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i^\top
\]

because of the following
\[
  (X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i W_i)_{i} = X_i(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i W_i \\
  = W_i X_i(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i^\top \\
  = (W X(X^\top W X)^{-1}X_i^\top)_{i}
\]

# Special Considerations in Implementations

## Pseudo Inverse of a Matrix

Empirical covariance matrix is involved with the inverse of a matrix, or symmetric square root of a matrix.
To calculate this, we usually requires that the matrix is positive-definite.

> However, this is not always assured in calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this is not always assured in practice.
```
why not? please add here an explanation

Thus, following @pustejovsky2018small, we use pseudo inverse to avoid this.
We follow the following logic to obtain the pseudo inverse:

1. Conduct singular value decomposition.
2. Take square root of the reciprocals of singular values, if the value is larger than a computational threshold;
otherwise replace the value with 0.
3. Reconstruct the pseudo inverse matrix from modified singular values and U/V matrix.

> 

Reviewer: please also link this to the code - imagine you are a future developer and need to understand this and find the code etc.

> In `Eigen` package, the pseudo inverse method is already implemented, but it is not used for the following reason:

Reviewer: also mention the name of the function / link to documentation here

1. The pseudo inverse method is not stable and can lead to `NAN` in calculations.

> 2. To find out the symmetric square root, singular value decomposition is still needed, so not to use the method but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To find out the symmetric square root, singular value decomposition is still needed, so not using the method but instead
```

> calculate the square root of the pseudo inverse can be simpler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calculating directly the square root of the pseudo inverse can be simpler.
```

Empirical covariance matrix is involved with the inverse of a matrix, or symmetric square root of a matrix.
To calculate this, we usually requires that the matrix is positive-definite.
However, @young2016improved suggest that this is not always assured in practice.

Thus, following @pustejovsky2018small, we use the pseudo inverse to avoid this.

> We follow the following logic(cpp code in `pseudoInverseSqrt`) to obtain the pseudo inverse:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We follow the following logic (see the corresponding `C++` function `pseudoInverseSqrt`) to obtain the pseudo inverse:
```
